# Motivation

Standing on the shoulders of open-source giants.

As scientists, not as software developers, sometimes we have a knack for reinventing the (software) wheel in our projects whilst not creating interfaces for utility connectivity of the work we do. I see a tendency to focus on solving a problem, rather than allowing others to clearly understand it, contribute to the solution, and extend its functionality. We begin thinking that because we understand our software, everyone else will. Sometimes, we focus on the specific aspect of our research, rather than finding ways to generalise our work and interconnect to solutions that are so much better than what we could do individually. Maybe, we repeat the cycle of some PhD researchers, to go very in depth into something and forget to develop connectivity to the bigger picture and to the great work of so many multidisciplinary people. We focus on what we understand and our small niche of specialised friends, rather on translating so people with completely different backgrounds can understand. I have done this. I have seen many others do this many times. And I refuse to do this again.

So much understanding and information is lost in closed-source modelling systems, in proprietary badly written software that does not enable us to debug them, or even care to sort out our problems when we have a massive deadline. Open-source software frees us from the chains that hold back our innovation of the future. It allows us to make things better, to have good discussions openly, to improve the tools we all use, to work together as a community, and to get different people involved. We can direct our field of research in a meaningful direction towards where we want to go - not where a monopoly multinational company can get most profit.

This project aims to be a set of easy functions that allow interconnecting and getting the most out of existing tools to design electronics and photonics. It aims to provide as much easy connectivity between amazing open-source projects that have been developed for a very long time. It aims to provide interfaces that could be extended to integrate closed-source design tools to be useful to more than a few existing teams with existing microelectronic, and photonic design flows.
