Design Flows
-------------

Let's consider the fundamental principles between electronic-photonic codesign flows, and the corresponding modelling at each stage.
In this section, we will explore some design flow relationships between co-designed systems.

In pure mixed-signal microelectronics, there are already some established design flows normally for systems in the same chip.

For example:
- `Cadence Mixed-Signal Implementation Options <https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/solutions/mixed-signal-solutions/mixed-signal-implementation.html.html>`_
- `Cadence Verification Overview Whitepaper - Demystifying Mixed-Signal Simulation for Digital Verification Engineers <https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/resources/white-papers/demystifying-mixed-signal-simulation-for-digital-verification-engineers-wp.html>`_

There is also some further work in the direction of silicon chiplet design, where different chips are connected together in an interposer to form a system rather than on a single-die. This is pretty handy for multi technology chips.

For example,
- `Building An Open Chiplet Economy <https://www.opencompute.org/blog/building-an-open-chiplet-economy>`_
- `ZeroAsic Chiplet Solution <https://www.zeroasic.com/>`_

Eventually, in photonics, we will want to jump on this bandwagon, and there is some movement in this direction anyways.

So let's summarise the existing mixed-signal design flows we know from these above:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Description
     - References
   * - Analogue-on-Top
     -
     - `In Cadence <https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/solutions/mixed-signal-solutions/mixed-signal-implementation.html.html>`_
   * - Digital-on-Top
     -
     - `In Cadence <https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/solutions/mixed-signal-solutions/mixed-signal-implementation.html.html>`_
   * - Mixed-Signal-on-Top
     -
     - `In Cadence <https://www.cadence.com/en_US/home/solutions/mixed-signal-solutions/mixed-signal-implementation.html.html>`_

Domain Principles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are three important domains in a given co-design flow: *digital and analogue electronics, and photonics*.

The photonics domain can be divided into passive photonics, not discussed here, and active photonics. Active photonics could be grouped into opto-electronic and electro-optic systems. Opto-electronic systems involve an optical signal being converted into a photonic signal, whilst electro-optics is the inverse.

Frequently, an analogue electronic signal drives or is generated by an *active* photonic device. For now, we will concern ourselves with analogue electronic signals that operate at multiple order of magnitude below of the frequencies of tera-hertz optical electromagnetic signals. However, there has been much research into the interaction of terahertz electronics and photonics which has led to interesting physical effects and applications, but maybe we discuss this in another section.

If we are interacting with these analogue signals through a modern computer, it means that we are *discretising* the analogue signals. In many applications, we need to consider the digital-logic control or readout of analogue signals from a photonic system.
