# Time Domain

It is important to note that optical time may not be in sync to electronic time. This means that optical signals vary and change independently of electronic signals. Fundamentally, this means that electronic-photonic systems are interconnected but can be operating at different clock rates, and both electronic and photonic functions depend on both the inputs of both electronic and photonic systems.

Actual operations are combined and need to be treated as mixed systems, they can not be considered independently because on its own that does not represent a *useful* output.

 We can now simulate SPICE-based circuits alongside ourdefined layout electrical models. This allows us the power to implement our own sources, and our own components in a more complete manner. However, this does not fundamentally solve the problem we have on multiple time domain simulations. We have timing data from digital sources and analog electronic sources. If you have delayed photonic signals, then we also have timing data independently in the photonic domain. This leads to a major time-synchronisation issue. It is in this type of problem structure that a microservice implementation again comes to the rescue.

For example, digital signals are particularly valuable and useful when considering steady-state signal propagation. Analogue signals are particularly interesting in the transition between electronic states, as the rise-times and signal-shapes will be determined by RC constants primarily. In the midst of all of this, photonic signals can change independently. There is a direct control from the electronics to the unitary of the component, and at discretised points in time the unitary can be computed. For the period of discrete time this signal is valid, the unitary can be computed. The accuracy desired is just determined by the discretization time. In that period of time, there is a linear relationship between optical signal inputs, and outputs.

As an approximation, if the signals are switching between logic levels, then it is reasonable to compute the analog rise-time and fall-time signals accordingly and operate on them linearly if the digital clock period is high. However, if the logic levels in which the signal is switching is
